you're listening to a teaching from Reality LA.
If I haven't met you yet, my name is Jeremy.
I'm one of the elders here.
And today is a very special day for us because today is Vision Sunday.
Are you excited for Vision Sunday?
Yes.
We do this every year to discover God's vision for our church and to align around it as we seek the renewal of Los Angeles through the good news of Jesus.
And this is so important because the norm for every institution, organization, or church is vision drift.
You see, gradually over time, what happens is that churches slowly veer away from who God has called them to be.
And so as a church, we have to recognize that we will never drift into faithfulness to Jesus, especially not in a city like Los Angeles.
So we have to be clear about who God has called us to be and then commit to it and then recommit over and over again.
And the same is actually true for you as an individual.
You will never drift into Christ likeness.
You will not wander into maturity or holiness.
You have to deliberately seek God's vision for your life and then build everything around it.
And I know that you've got your individual goals and your New Year's resolutions.
But what you need is to be a part of a community that has clear direction from God.
And that is what Vision Sunday is all about.
So what we're going to do today is answer four questions.
Who are we?
Where have we been?
Where are we going?
And what's my part?
Now, if you're visiting here today, this is a perfect day for you to be here, because you're really good to see who we are and what we're all about as a church.
And if you're a member of this church, this is a critical time every year where we unite around God's vision and then recommit to Christ, to one another, and to the mission that He's given us in this city.
Now, we'll look at a lot of Scripture throughout this, and I will preach a text in the middle of it, but let's just begin with a word of prayer.
Okay, pray with me.
God, we come before you today, expectant, because we believe that you are the living God.
We are not just looking back at a historical figure, but we believe that Christ is risen.
He's on the move in this city.
We believe that you work in different ways and different generations and different cities.
And God, we want what you would have for us as a church here in Los Angeles.
And God,
This time just feels so critical.
I mean, the world is so unstable right now, and yet you are stable.
You are our stability.
And Lord, as we look forward into 2026, we have to acknowledge that we don't know everything that's going to come.
In fact, we can expect the unexpected in so many ways.
We don't know what's going to happen in this year.
But God, we know that you will be faithful in all of it.
We know that you won't be surprised by any of it.
And we know that you will be at work in every single way of building your kingdom, of drawing us closer to yourself.
So today, Lord, would you help us to see you for who you are?
to get a clear sense of where you're leading us as a congregation, and then for us to unite around that and commit to it, with a desperation that says, if the Lord doesn't move, then we will fall flat on our faces.
You're all we have, God, you're all we want.
Would you lead us in this time?
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen, amen.
All right, so four questions, and the first is this.
Who are we as a church?
We are a church.
We are a community of broken people who are being made new by Jesus.
And our name is Reality Church of Los Angeles or Reality LA for short.
And some people hear that and they think, why is your name reality?
Like, that's kind of an odd name for a church.
Well, it actually comes from the Bible, okay?
In Colossians 2, Paul is talking about all the things that people look to for meaning and identity and purpose, but in the end, they're only shadows.
Then in verse 17 of Colossians 2, it lands with the real weight.
He says this, these are a shadow of the things that were to come.
The reality, however, is found in Christ.
So that's why our church is called reality LA, because we believe that Jesus is reality.
He's the one who fulfills our longings.
He's the one who heals our wounds.
He's the one who forgives our sin.
And then when community is built around Jesus, we can actually be real with one another.
We don't have to hide behind the facade of religious performance or career success.
We don't have to pretend to have it all together.
We're all broken and Jesus is making us new.
And so that's why our vision is seeking the renewal of Los Angeles through the good news of Jesus.
And I know that a lot of churches
posture themselves against the city, kind of in us versus them, but we are for the city.
We love Los Angeles because Jesus loves Los Angeles.
And we long to see the lost save, the lonely brought into community, and the city of angels become more like the kingdom of God.
But what's our role in that renewal?
As we seek renewal, what are we supposed to do?
Well, Jesus was clear on our mission.
He said, go therefore and make disciples of all nations.
So the mission of the church is not to draw a crowd, but to make disciples, people who know him and learn from him and become like him over a lifetime.
And then Jesus says, we do this by teaching them to observe all that I commanded.
And so for us as a church, we break that down by saying that our mission is to make disciples
who follow Jesus, love one another, and serve Los Angeles.
That's what we're about.
That's what we're obsessed with.
Everything we do is built around making disciples.
Our budget is built around making disciples who follow Jesus, love one another, and serve Los Angeles.
Our staff is organized around making disciples who follow Jesus, love one another, and serve Los Angeles.
We measure success by whether we are making disciples who follow Jesus, love one another, and serve Los Angeles.
And then that plays out practically for us with our discipleship pathway.
And beneath the categories of follow Jesus, love one another and serve Los Angeles, we have 12 dynamics of renewal.
These are key areas of discipleship that we need to focus on, but also return to throughout our lives.
And combined, they form a basic profile of the kind of disciples that we're aiming to be and to make.
So to follow Jesus means you live by the story of Scripture.
You know God.
Your identity is in Christ.
And you have formative practices that shape your heart and your character over time.
But this isn't just about you as an individual.
We are disciples who love one another.
That means you learn to have healthy relationships.
You experience healing from wounds.
You're known in community and you belong to a church.
And then together, we serve Los Angeles.
That means you witness to Christ in word and deed.
You do justice in a world of injustice.
You work with God, learning to apply your faith to your vocation.
And you make culture as image bearers of God who are in the world, but not of the world.
So this is a profile of a disciple and a pathway for how we grow as disciples.
And just to be clear, the discipleship pathway is not just another ministry in our church.
It's the framework for all ministry in our church, and it flows directly from our mission to make disciples.
And then lastly, in terms of who we are, we have 10 values as a church.
And while I'm not gonna talk through every one of these, I will say that the secret sauce is in holding the tension in all of these values.
And the phrase that captures that tension for us is orthodoxy in exile.
So we are rooted in the city, but different from the city.
We preach the word and we pursue justice.
We're united in the gospel, but different in our cultural backgrounds.
We follow Jesus alone, but learn to do so in all of life.
And so at the end of the day, we're a church that believes that Jesus changes everything, amen?
So that's who we are.
That leads to the next question of where have we been?
Well, today is an especially significant vision Sunday because this year we are celebrating our 20-year anniversary as a church.
20 years!
Wow!
I mean, we started as a prayer meeting in a living room, and two decades later, we're a healthy and rooted church in the heart of Los Angeles.
And we can't take this for granted one bit.
I mean, it is a miracle of God's grace that we're still here, let alone healthy and thriving.
And honestly, I've seen so many churches come and go in LA.
I can think of several churches just in the last year that have closed down or moved out of the city.
And I get it.
It's a hard place to follow Jesus and to do church.
But by God's grace, we're still here 20 years later.
And in May, we're going to have a special celebration where we're going to reflect on what God has done over 20 years.
We'll worship him for his faithfulness and then pray that he would do even greater things as we move forward.
But today, I just want to quickly highlight the story of our church so that we can begin to celebrate God's faithfulness over the last two decades.
It all started in 2006, when Pastor Tim Chatech led a small group of people with a simple vision of proclaiming the gospel in the heart of the city and seeing what God would do.
The first service was held in the Michael Jackson Auditorium in Gardener Elementary.
And the church was very small for the first year, but it grew.
And going into 2007, we moved into Lacont Middle School, which is actually just right next door across the street here.
And God was moving powerfully, and as we ran out of space in that middle school, this high school was being built on what was an old lot of an old TV studio.
And once this high school was finished in the summer of 2008, before the students even came into the school, we started meeting here as a church.
My family and I moved to Los Angeles and joined the church in 2013 at a time when the church had grown
significantly, and we were really scrambling to build infrastructure and raise up leaders to keep up with the growth.
And then two years later, in 2015, we sent our founding pastor, Tim Chatek, to plant reality London, and I stepped into the position for pastor for preaching and vision.
And that wasn't a season, that season wasn't just a transition from Tim to me, it was a transition from us being a young church plant that was riding a lot of momentum,
toward Lord willing becoming a healthy church that's making disciples from one generation to the next.
And by God's grace, that's what's happened.
And just as we were settling into that though, into that new identity as a church, we were then approached by another church, Hope International Bible Fellowship, right down the street here in East Hollywood.
And long story short, their congregation joined our congregation and we inherited the Hope Center
and off the office building as well as an incredible food ministry.
And this was just a game changer for us as a church.
But then again, just as we were settling into that new season, the pandemic hit in 2020.
Remember doing everything on Zoom for that time?
Brutal, brutal.
Well, honestly, it was a hard season for us as a church.
We had a lot of people in our church that moved out of the city.
We had about 10 years of conversations about race and politics within one year.
We couldn't meet in the school, so we were online for a full year.
And then we met outside in a parking lot for several months.
Remember that?
Remember those good memories?
Anyway, who was here for that?
Who was in the parking lot?
Look at that.
We've come so far.
But by God's grace, we weathered that storm.
And the last three to four years have really been a season of reviving and rebuilding for us, building everything around our mission.
And God has just been so gracious to us.
I mean, so many of you have come to know Christ here or returned to Christ here.
We've seen God knit lives together, friendships that feel like family, marriages that began in this community, meaningful work that was born here and children who are growing up amongst us.
And I can't believe it's been 20 years, and I'm just so overwhelmed by how kind God has been to us.
And that leads up to last year, 2025.
And our vision in 2025 was to be on mission with Jesus.
And man, did we have opportunities to do that.
One year ago, from right now, a year ago, at this time, our city was literally on fire.
and fires burned for over three weeks throughout the city with 18,000 homes and structures being destroyed and 180,000 people evacuating.
It was one of the most devastating times in the history of our city.
We had several people in our church who lost their homes, many who had to evacuate, and almost all of us had a bag packed not knowing what would happen.
And yet, God looked on our city with compassion.
He's the God who's with us in the fire.
He's the God who enters into our suffering and he's the God of restoration.
And by his grace, he invited us into his beautiful work of restoration in this city.
People started donating money and more money, people from outside the church and outside the state and all kinds of people were donating money.
And before we knew it, we had over $380,000 in our fire relief fund.
And so we prayed and God gave us a vision
to help people who have lost their homes, churches who've lost their buildings, and foster families that were impacted by the fires.
And so we created three different committees of people in our church.
And when the world moved on after the initial impact, these committees got to work and they distributed all of this money.
$120,000 were given to three different churches in Los Angeles.
$183,000.
were distributed to 32 different families or individuals who lost their homes or who lost work because of the fires.
And $69,000 was given to foster families or vulnerable families who were impacted by the fires.
And church, that wasn't strategy.
That was grace.
That wasn't us being impressive.
That was God being faithful.
And we should give Him praise for all that He did in the midst of the amen.
Now another massive event for us in 2025 was that we did our first ever capital campaign, which we called rebuilding for renewal.
And as I mentioned earlier, we had been given two buildings and while they're beautiful, they're also deeply broken, not up to code, and barely even functional.
And so in 2025, we set out to raise funds to steward these sacred spaces.
And the goal is to raise enough money above and beyond our regular giving to make these buildings become a home for our church and a hub of renewal for our city for generations to come.
And while we'll still continue to meet here on Sunday mornings, these buildings give us roots in the city of space for ministry throughout the week and a tangible way to serve our city.
And so we laid out division, we shared the need and we ask you all to give sacrificially to the Lord's work.
And by God's abundant grace,
We exceeded our minimum goal, and the congregation pledged $6.2 million over the next two years.
Praise God.
Now, I told you all when we started the campaign was that one thing was I didn't want it to be weird, no thermometers or manipulation, okay?
Check.
I think we got through that.
But second, I told you that my prayer is that God would use the capital campaign to do a work in our church far greater than just raising money.
And that's exactly what he did.
I mean, the way that he provided the money is incredible, but what's even better is how he's used this campaign to mature us as a church.
We're more united around our vision.
We've learned how to view money as a matter of discipleship.
We're more informed about how our staff works and what Sir valet does.
And most of all, we learned to pray and depend on God more than we have before.
I'll never forget after our celebration Sunday where we announced the pledges that I was talking to someone in our church in the courtyard and he said,
Man, I got to be honest, I never thought we would raise that much money.
I never thought we would.
And he said, once you announced it, he said, I was looking around the auditorium.
He said, I see our church differently now.
He said, it's easy to look around and see a crowd and think, it's LA.
It's a bunch of noncommittal people who are kind of here for what they get out of it.
And there's maybe a small core that's committed.
And he said, I'm looking around saying, these people are really committed.
These people are really united around what God has called us to do in this city.
And I think that's exactly right.
And that's because this renovation is all about being on mission with Jesus.
We're not renovating our buildings to be an insular, more comfortable community, but in order to reach deeper and further into our city with the gospel.
And yet all of this
is because of the generosity of God.
He has been so generous to us.
And for all that, we should give him praise.
So can we praise God as we look back on this year and sing what he's done?
And so the fire relief and the capital campaign, those were two big headlines throughout 2025, but God did so much more, so much more.
We spent all of 2025 in the book of Acts, learning how to be on mission with Jesus and how his mission advances through the church empowered by the spirit.
And we're seeing how that happened in the Roman Empire in the book of Acts, and that we're seeing the same God do the same kinds of things right here in Los Angeles.
In fact, at the beginning of the series, I told you that my hope was that in the first couple of weeks that you would have an increased burden for the lost.
And then in the next couple of months that you would feel more equipped to reach the lost.
And then by the end of the year that there'd be new believers sitting all around you.
And that's exactly what's happened.
I've heard the most amazing stories this year of people who were so far from Jesus, who are now following Jesus.
And we've seen kids who are growing up in our church profess faith in Christ and live for Him on their own volition.
So altogether, in 2025, we celebrated 42 baptisms.
Can we praise God for that?
42 baptisms.
People from all walks of life, young and old, black, white, Hispanic, Asian, people who have come from church backgrounds, non-church backgrounds, all made new by Jesus.
And what I love about almost every one of these conversion stories is that they involve one of you, somebody who is
praying for them, sharing the gospel with them, inviting them to church and walking with them on their journey.
And so, as we look back on 2025, there's so much more that I could talk about.
I mean, like we did at another RFKC camp for 37 kids in the foster care system in L.A., amazing.
We have 360 servant leaders who help make this place hospitable on Sundays and get an offering of worship to God.
Servale served 72,000 meals last year out of the Hope Center.
Absolutely incredible.
In fact, that just reminds me of one quick story I wanna tell you.
Servale earlier in 2025 was in a month where they're in a place of financial need and the church gives a large portion to Servale, but they also rely on outside fundraising as well.
In one day, Kyle Miller, the executive director of Servale,
We were meeting and we were just praying that God would provide.
And we literally prayed like, God, just from somewhere, just provide God, we need your provision.
And literally the next day, a former member of reality LA who moved out of the city and has become a very successful actor, got invited to be on celebrity wheel of fortune.
And he went on Celebrity Wheel of Fortune and picked Servelle as his nonprofit that the proceeds would go to.
And he crushed it and won $110,000 for Servelle.
So God has been so good to us, providing in the most amazing ways.
And 2025 was a full year.
It was full of sorrow.
It was full of joy.
And yet in all of it, God was so gracious to us.
And then looking back on last year gives us so much confidence as we look forward to this year.
And so that leads to the next question, where are we going in 2026?
Well, let's remember, we're not starting from scratch.
In 2025, our vision was to be on mission with Jesus.
And in this coming year, there are two things that we already feel deeply called to and committed to that's still aligned with that vision.
So first is the book of Acts.
We're just past the halfway book
halfway point in the book of Acts.
And the second half is where Paul goes into all these pagan cities, plants churches, and teaches them how to be faithful to Christ there.
So it's definitely a blueprint for us in terms of being on mission in Los Angeles.
And the second thing we're already committed to is the renovation, which is about being on mission in this city in a holistic way for a long time.
So in 2026, we basically wanna double down on our vision of being on mission with Jesus.
And I think this is more relevant than ever.
People are so open, they're hungry, they're spiritually curious right now.
What I see in our city is a disillusionment with the things of the world.
People know, they're starting to learn at least that they can't find their hope in politics.
They know that their hope can't be in artificial intelligence.
They know that their hope is not in digital technology.
And we're people who can say, there's hope in Christ.
There's meaning in Christ.
There's purpose in Christ.
There's community in Christ.
This is what people are longing for.
And I'm having conversations with people regularly who don't have any other space to talk about spiritual questions.
And so they're coming to church.
I mean, I love that I'm meeting unbelievers every week who show up to our church.
They Googled us.
They Googled church in Los Angeles.
They found us on social media.
ChatGPT is telling people to come to reality LA, seriously.
But most of all, you all are inviting your friends, your neighbors, your coworkers, and lives are being changed.
I mean, I've seen just in the last few weeks,
People who I thought would never become Christians, who are now following Jesus and telling others about him.
And so I really think that there's a mission opportunity in our city right now.
People are hungry, Jesus is on the move, and we wanna join him in what he's doing.
And so while we wanna double down on last year's vision of being on mission with Jesus, we also wanna add a slight emphasis to this.
Because being on mission isn't just a vision for a handful of people who are extroverts and passionate about evangelism.
So in this year to come, our vision is for everyone to be on mission with Jesus.
The whole church is called to participate in Christ's work in this city.
And I wanna share an analogy with you that will help you understand this.
I've shared it before, but hopefully this will just tattoo it on your brain, okay?
A lot of people think of the church like a cruise ship.
And on a cruise ship, you have two groups of people.
There is a small group of people that do all the work, okay?
These are the staff that makes the food and serve the food and changes your sheets and does the shows.
There's a small group that does all the work and then there's a large group that's literally along for the ride, right?
They do the chocolate fondue and sit by the pool and go to the shows and critique the paid professionals.
Well, for the church, a lot of people think of the church like a cruise ship, that there's a small group of people, the people who are like fanatical about their faith or maybe it's like the leaders in the church, they do most of the work and everyone else is just kind of along the ride to show up when you can, critique the paid professionals from time to time.
But what I want you to learn is that the church is not like a cruise ship, it's like a battleship.
See, on a battleship, there's not two groups of people, a small group that do the work and one that are along for the ride.
No, on a battleship, everyone has a role because everyone is in a mission together.
And so we need to be like people on a battleship because we are in a spiritual war
And we have been given a mission by God in this city, and everyone has a role to play.
There's no coming along, just to be along for the ride.
Everyone must be involved in the mission.
And so I wanna speak to everyone in this room, because the mission of Jesus isn't for a few people, it's for all of us.
No one gets a pass, no one is disqualified, and no one is meant to sit this out.
And some of you are on the sidelines.
You've been watching, observing, evaluating, but not participating.
You've treated the church like an event you attend rather than a movement that you belong to.
And listen, Jesus didn't save you for you to be a spectator.
He calls you into the mission.
So what's holding you back?
I just want to plead with you.
I mean, some of you, you're wounded.
You've been hurt by life, maybe even by people in the church.
My prayer is that you would experience healing and that you wouldn't stay isolated, but that you would step into this mission with humility and hope.
Some of you are hard-hearted.
You've grown guarded and cynical and jaded.
And my prayer is that the love of God would soften your heart and draw you into his mission.
Some of you are apathetic, you're not opposed, you're just numb, you're not hostile, you're just disengaged.
My prayer is that God would awaken in you a holy urgency so that you'd remember what you're saved from and what you're saved for.
Some of you straight up are living double lives.
You declare Jesus as Lord and live that out on Sundays and then you're a completely different person around other people in your lives.
Jesus doesn't shame you, but he calls you to repentance, full surrender,
and to participate in His work.
Some of you are just discouraged.
You've tried, you've prayed, you've stepped out, and you're tired.
But I want to say to you, take heart.
The mission doesn't depend on your strength.
It's carried by the power of the Spirit.
And so wherever you find yourself today, hear this clearly.
Jesus is calling you, not someday, not after you get your life together, but today.
We need everyone on mission with Jesus.
That's what we're after in 2026.
And this isn't just an idea.
It's a command from God's word.
And so now I want to show you how this vision is grounded in Scripture.
All right.
We've spent the better part, or we're spending the better part of two years in the book of Acts.
But today I wanna look to the Old Testament story of Jonah, which in a lot of ways is a precursor to the mission of the church and the New Testament.
And so if you have your Bible, you can open it up to Jonah chapter three, or I'll have the words on the screen behind me.
But while some of you are turning there, let me just give you some context of the story of leading up to Jonah chapter three.
So what's going on is that Nineveh is the city in the ancient world, the capital of Assyria, and it was known for its cruelty and oppression.
But God sends Jonah to that city.
He says, arise and go to Nineveh, that great city and preach to them.
But Jonah doesn't want any part of it.
Nineveh's evil, they're wicked, they're cruel.
Jonah resists, he runs away from God fleeing to another city on a ship on the sea.
And as he's on this ship, a storm comes.
And everyone on this ship begins to cry out to all their different gods, but Jonah realizes in the midst of the storm that it's because of him.
So he tells them, throw me over.
And they do.
They throw him over the sea calms.
And it says, the Lord appoints a great fish to swallow up Jonah.
He's in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights.
And what is he doing there?
He's praying.
And then the Lord commands the fish and it spits Jonah up out onto the dry land.
And that's where we pick up in Jonah chapter three.
Jonah has resisted the mission of God, but what we're going to see is God's relentless mission to the city and his patience with his reluctant people.
So look at Jonah chapter three with me.
Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time saying, arise, go to Nineveh, that great city.
and call out against it the message that I tell you.
So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord.
Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days journey in breath.
Jonah began to go into the city, going a days journey, and he called out, yet 40 days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown.
And the people of Nineveh believed God.
They called for a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest of them to the least of them.
Wow, so let me walk through what's happening here, because this short passage tells us exactly what we need to know about God's mission, our role in the transformation of a city.
So first, we see God's mission, and that God's mission is to the city.
In verse two, he says, arise, go to Nineveh, that great city.
Now we have to be clear about what great means here.
Nineveh was not morally great.
It was violent, oppressive, and notorious for its evil.
But great here means that this city is large, influential, and full of people made in the image of God.
God looks at a city, and Jonah wants to avoid it, but God says go to that great city.
And because God's heart, he does this because God's heart has always been for cities.
Cities like Nineveh, Rome, Athens, even cities like Los Angeles.
But why is God on mission to the city when it's so full of evil?
Well, because as we see in this passage, God's mission is driven by compassion.
Actually, in Jonah chapter four, the last verse in chapter four, verse 11, the Lord says this, should I not have compassion on Nineveh, that great city in which there are more than 120,000 persons who do not know their right hand from their left and also much the cattle?
So God sees people who are lost, and he sees them like sheep without a shepherd, and his heart is moved toward them.
So God's mission is driven by compassion, but then we also learn that God's mission is persistent in the face of opposition.
So notice in verse one, it says, the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time.
Jonah had already ran.
He already disobeyed.
He already failed, and yet God comes again.
This is the mission of God who is persistent with his mission and patient with his people.
And even though Jonah had ran from God, God doesn't replace Jonah, he restores him and he invites him into his mission again.
And so we've seen God's mission, but now let's focus on what we learn about our role.
Well, Jonah was sent on a mission and so are we.
It's not our mission, it's God's, but He's called us into it.
And what's clear is that Jonah's role is not to save or convert people, only God can do that.
Jonah is simply called to tell people about God.
And Jonah's message is strikingly short.
In the original language of Hebrew, it's literally five words.
There's no persuasion, no strategy, no technique, just obedience and a message from God.
And here's the key.
The power is not in the messenger.
The power is in the message that God sends.
And that's so freeing, isn't it?
God doesn't need impressive people.
He works through obedient people.
And that's what he's asking of us to play a role in his mission.
You know, one of our deacons sent me an Instagram reel a little while ago from this account called Subway Takes.
And it's a fun account.
This guy basically sits on the subway in New York and asks people for their take on something.
And so people give all kinds of takes, right?
One person's take is that the government controls the weather.
Another person's take is that dogs should have to wear shoes.
It's pretty convincing if you listen to it.
But there's one person, this woman, she's wearing oversized sunglasses and tattoos all over her arms and her take.
is that religious people don't actually believe what they say.
And he says, 100% disagree.
And then she starts to defend herself.
And she explains why.
And she says, because if they really believed it, they would tell everyone else about it nonstop.
And she says,
She literally says, I quit eating sugar and I can't stop telling everyone about it.
Like, how could these people believe that they'll go to hell apart from God or have eternal life with them and they don't talk to anyone about it?
I mean, she says that she thinks most religious people are liars and hypocrites because they say they believe this stuff but they don't care whether it actually impacts anyone else.
And it's a fascinating video but it's convicting.
I mean, if we had the cure for cancer, we'd be telling everyone about it.
But we have something even better, the remedy for sin and the source of eternal life.
How can we not let as many people possible know about it?
And that's what God is calling us into, to play a key role in his mission of being heralds of the gospel, proclaiming the good news to people who genuinely don't know.
And so we've seen God's mission in our role.
But Jonah chapter three answers one central question.
What does it look like when God sends ordinary, reluctant people on his mission?
Look at verse five, it says, in the people of Nineveh believed God.
So they didn't believe Jonah, they believed God.
From the greatest to the least, and we actually learned in the verses following this, that even the cattle
put on sackcloth and ashes as a sign of repentance.
The whole city is impacted by the message.
And this is what God does when his word goes forth.
It happened in Nineveh.
It can happen right here in Los Angeles.
But Jonah three doesn't just show us a model for mission.
It ultimately points us to the savior of the world.
Jesus is the true and better Jonah.
Think about it.
Jonah was sent to a great city that he didn't want to save.
Jesus was sent to a broken world he deeply loved.
Jonah went reluctantly.
Jesus came willingly.
Jonah preached judgment from outside the city.
Jesus entered into the city and to our suffering and he bore the judgment himself.
Jonah announced destruction in 40 days.
Jesus absorbed destruction on the cross so that mercy could flow forever.
And did you know that Jesus actually talked about the story of Jonah?
In the New Testament, Jesus says, just as Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights, so the son of man would be in the depths of the earth and then rise again.
And this is the apex of the entire story of Scripture.
that Jesus, who is the eternal Son of God, became a man so that he could die on the cross for our sins and rise from the grave so that we could have eternal life.
And then ascend to the right hand of the Father to reign over the world as king.
And that brings us to the Book of Acts.
And after Jesus rises from the grave, he doesn't say mission accomplished.
He says, as the Father has sent me, so I send you.
That's the Book of Acts.
The mission of Jesus continuing through ordinary people in the church who are empowered by the spirit.
Not perfect people, not fearless people, but forgiven, spirit-filled, sent people.
In Jonah 3, God sends one reluctant prophet to one great city.
In Acts, the risen Jesus sends his church to the nations.
And now, here we are.
The same God, the same gospel, the same mission,
in a great city once again.
And that's why this isn't just a story to admire.
It's a movement to join.
We need everyone on mission with Jesus.
Amen?
Amen.
All right, so that's our vision, grounded in scripture.
But now I wanna get more practical and talk about three goals that we have as a church in 2026.
These are three practical ways of getting everyone on mission with Jesus, okay?
And the first is to engage the essentials.
Now, I need to set this up by explaining a problem that has emerged in our church.
So out of a desire to have a robust approach to discipleship and to show Jesus' impact on all of life, we've developed a lot of ministries.
There's a lot going on, and that's great.
But we haven't always clarified where to start, how to prioritize, and what to do next.
And so sometimes, I think it's felt like there's a ministry buffet with lots going on, and people either get confused because they're not sure what to do, or they feel guilty because they're not doing it all.
And so, if you've felt that way as a leader, I wanna apologize to you, okay?
That's not on you.
That's on us as leaders.
We're doing the best that we can, but it's clear that we have some shortcomings and I think this is one of them.
So here's what we're going to do to remedy this and to create more clarity moving forward as a church, right?
There are four things that we expect every person in the church to do, okay?
Four essentials for being involved in the church in a healthy way as disciples.
And then everything else,
is recommended for deeper discipleship.
All right, so four essentials and they're built around our vision and our mission.
So the first essential is to gather on Sundays because everything flows from the gospel.
So according to scripture, it's not that we all have our private individual spirituality and then we tack on a church service every once in a while.
No, the gathering of the church is to retell the story of the gospel and it's the fountainhead of everything that we do throughout the week.
But the problem is, even though Sunday gatherings are so important in the life of the church, is that recent trends show that the average regular church goer only attends church twice a month, which means that they're probably just doing it when it's convenient, when they feel like it, when their friends are going, or when nothing else is going on.
And this is a major problem.
Hebrews 10 tells us, do not give up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing.
And Sundays are not the whole of the Christian life, but they are a very important part of it.
So the first essential is to gather on Sundays.
The second is to engage the discipleship pathway to learn to follow Jesus.
Now I've already unpacked our discipleship pathway, and we've been trying to get people to go through this over the last couple of years through an online tool.
But we've recognized over the last couple of years just the importance of being together with people in person and the need to be guided through this by leaders.
So this year, we're going to massively prioritize this and shift things up.
And we're gonna offer 10-week discipleship cohorts on Sundays right after church, 12 to 130.
Like, come to church, you're already here, you can go take part in a discipleship cohort
And what we'll do in these 10 weeks is go through the 12 dynamics of renewal.
So every week we'll have a short Bible teaching on that dynamic and then we'll break up into smaller cohorts where we'll do discipleship together.
And then we're gonna do this three times throughout the year.
And the goal is to get as many people as possible to go through the discipleship pathway.
We're encouraging people to commit to the whole 10 weeks in a row.
But if you need to, you can sign up for three or four weeks at a time and then piece those together throughout the year.
And I know that a lot of you have already gone through this online.
That's great.
If you want, we'd love to have you be a leader for one of these cohorts.
And then for everyone, you can sign up for this today.
We're maxing, our capacity for this is 125 people.
My hope is that we max it out today.
We want to get, and other people got to wait for the next one.
We want to get as many people possible through the discipleship cohorts.
So that's the,
Second essential, the third is to be involved in Christian community.
This is how we love one another.
And you know this, we're not called to follow Jesus alone, but to do so together.
I think about a gentleman in our church, he's new to our church, and I bumped into him in the Hope Center last year.
And he said, I'm going to my first community group tonight.
And I said, amazing, that's awesome.
I'm so excited for you.
And he goes, no, you don't understand.
I became a Christian 40 years ago and I've never really had Christian community.
And then I said, wow, I'm really happy that you are going to community group tonight.
And so then I saw on the next Sunday and I asked him, I said, how was it?
How did it go?
And he said, life changing.
So I didn't realize how much I needed this and I can't believe I've been going without it.
This group is like family.
And that's the way that it's meant to be.
And so we need community.
And for us as a church, we offer community groups as a formal way to be involved in community.
And we build a lot of our care structure with our elders and deacons around that.
But being in a reality LA community group isn't the only way of having Christian community in your life.
I think that's ideal because you have a shared commitment to a broader community and mission.
But the key is just that you have Christians in your life that you regularly get together with explicitly for the purpose of Christian fellowship.
Sharing life, you're meeting each other's needs, you're praying together, you're speaking the truth of the gospel into each other's lives.
So that's the third essential, be involved in Christian community.
And then fourth, serve in some capacity, okay?
I mean, Jesus says the Son of Man did not come to be served but to serve.
And so as disciples of Jesus, our posture towards one another in the city is a posture of service.
And there are all kinds of ways that you can serve in the church.
You can serve on Sundays with set up or tear down or kidsmen or hospitality.
You can serve throughout the week at the Hope Center with Serve LA or one of our mission partners in the city.
You can serve as a community group leader or in particular ministries like Gospel care or vocational groups.
But once again, I want to clarify that serving in a formal role in the church isn't the only way to serve.
We're not saying being involved in Christian programs or ministries equals maturity.
I just want you to have a level of intentionality with service so that if somebody asks you where do you serve, then you'd be able to answer that question.
So let me quickly review.
There's four essentials.
Gather on Sundays.
Engage the discipleship pathway.
Be involved in Christian community.
and serve in some capacity.
And then everything else is recommended for deeper discipleship.
And we do a lot of different things.
We offer a lot of different ministries.
And I hope that lots of people do those.
But honestly, if you're not doing these four essentials, that's where we'd want you to first focus your time and your energy.
In fact, what I want to do right now is I want you to assess
where you're at on these four essentials.
So there's gonna be a QR code on the screen behind me.
I want you to go ahead and pull out your phone and go to that, all right?
Go to this site and this is going to be a self-assessment for you.
So as I'm talking, just go for it.
I'll try and get out of the way in a second.
But go ahead and pull this up and I want you to assess yourself, how many of these four essentials are you doing?
Maybe there were blind spots in your life or key areas that you've underestimated.
And so we want everyone to do this anonymous survey.
It's anonymous, okay?
Should take you about 30 seconds.
And we want to do this for two reasons.
All right, one is for you to reflect on your own life and to think about, okay, where am I imbalanced?
Am I missing something?
Do I have blind spots?
We want you to reflect on your own life.
And then second, this will help our leadership to see where the needs are in our church so that we can better equip you all to be involved in a healthy and holistic way.
So take a second, get there, go through that survey as quick as you can, and I'll just remind you as you're doing that, these four essentials to gather on Sundays, to engage our discipleship pathway,
to be involved in Christian community and to serve in some capacity, okay?
Do that as quickly as you can now.
We also have, we'll have that QR code in the courtyard on some material that you can do if it's not working for you here for whatever reasons.
But we would love for you to be able to do that and more importantly, to reflect on your own life.
And then hopefully at the end of the year, you can look back at this and realize, I've grown.
I've grown in this area.
I'm involved in the church in a really healthy way as a disciple of Jesus.
All right, so that's our first goal is to engage the essentials.
We want as many people as possible just to engage in that most basic way.
All right, the second goal is to rebuild for renewal.
This will be really important for our church in 2026.
And here's where we have the pledges.
We did our capital campaign last year.
We need to continue to fulfill those pledges, of course.
But here's where we're at in the process now.
Over the last several months, we finalized the plans for the renovation and now we're going through the permitting process with the city and we're waiting to hear back from contractors on exact prices.
That should actually happen really soon.
The plan is to begin construction in July or August and then that should take about a year to do the construction.
And then in March, we're going to do a little refresher on the vision for the campaign, and we'll give an opportunity for new people in the church to join in on that.
So if you're new to our church in the last year, you might be hearing some of this and not fully sure what we're talking about, we'll kind of reopen that for new people in the church and then move forward there.
If anything, that will keep us all informed, especially so we know how to pray throughout this process.
So that's our second goal is to rebuild for renewal.
And then the third is to share the gospel.
I mean, we want to be on mission with Jesus, and mission is broader than just sharing the gospel, but we want to specifically focus on proclaiming the good news of Jesus.
We want to see lots of people become Christians this year, and that happens through hearing the gospel.
A woman in our church told me a story recently that she had surgery done on her eyes.
and they didn't put her under for the surgery.
So she's having surgery done on her eyes and the doctor is having conversation with her throughout the whole thing the entire time while he's operating on her eyes.
And so they get to talking, he hears that she's a Christian and really interested curious to start asking her all these questions about Christianity while he's operating on her eyes.
And finally he says, so what's your elevator pitch for Christianity?
Like, can you imagine in the operating room, like, what's your elevator pitch for Christianity?
Here's the beautiful thing.
She was ready.
And what she did was laid out the gospel, right, right there, laying on her back, you know, who knows what's going on with her eyes, which is lays out the gospel for this doctor to hear.
And what I love about that is that people are hungry, they're curious, conversations are happening in unexpected places.
The question is, are you ready?
When somebody asks you, what's your elevator pitch for Christianity?
Are you ready?
When somebody says, why do you go to church?
When somebody says, wait, you're a Christian, what's the deal with that?
Are you ready?
And there's a lot of ways to be able to go about that.
You can tell the story of scripture, you can share your testimony of what God's done in your life.
You can have a scripture that you know that you'll go to in that scenario, but I want you to be ready and I want us to be expectant that when we proclaim the gospel,
that people are going to hear and be transformed.
So we want to be ready to share the gospel.
Acts is going to continue to equip us for that.
We'll have an evangelism workshop that's going to give us really practical tools for that.
We're going to do several more Q and A's after Sunday gatherings throughout the year to make sure that we're creating space where skeptics know that they are welcome and questions are encouraged.
So that's where we're going.
2026, here's kind of a recap of that, our vision.
is for everyone to be on mission with Jesus.
And then as we're on mission with Jesus, we have three focus areas, goals that we've set.
We wanna engage the essentials, rebuild for renewal, and share the gospel.
That's where we're going.
All right, so that leads to the last question.
What's my part?
Well, the key word here is commitment.
Everything has been moving towards commitment.
And in a non-committal city, I wanna call you to commit
every single one of us.
And I want to call you to commit or to recommit in three ways.
So first, commit to follow Jesus.
Listen, if you're here and you're not a Christian, I want to encourage you and challenge you to commit your life to Christ today.
Maybe you've been seeking, maybe you've been on the fence, trust Him as Lord and Savior today.
Christ died for you so that you could live for Him.
There's nothing better in life, trusting Him today.
And if you're a Christian, I wanna call you today to recommit your life to Jesus and build everything around Him.
So first, commit to following Jesus.
Second, commit to loving one another.
We need Jesus and we need His family, the church.
And if you're a Christian and you've been checking this church out or you've kind of been around but not really involved, I wanna call you today to commit to the church.
And let me just explain what it means to be a member of the church.
Scripture says that if you're a Christian, then you're a member of the family of God, the global church.
But membership in the global church should be expressed in a commitment to a local church.
In other words, local church membership is a shared commitment with a local body of believers to Christ, to one another, and a mission in the city.
And so at Reality LA, we don't have people sign a contract.
What we do is we verbally express our commitments together every year on Vision Sunday, which we'll do in just a bit.
So today, I want to encourage you, commit to the church as an expression of your devotion to Christ.
And if you've been a member of this church, maybe even for 20 years, recommit today.
Don't just go through the motions, participate in the family of God.
You belong in this community.
And then third, in terms of commitment, commit to serve Los Angeles.
We're here because God has called us here to represent him in this city.
And so I want to encourage you to devote yourself to showing the love of Christ with your words and your deeds and your neighborhood and your workplace and throughout the city.
And let's pray for Los Angeles.
Let's pray for a powerful movement of God in this city that he loves so much.
So that's the call to commit to Christ to one another and the city that he has called us to.
Now, we're gonna respond today, but we're gonna do it in a way that's different than normal, but has become a tradition for us on Vision Sunday.
I've tried to lay out who we are and where we're going, and now we're gonna respond in three ways.
First, we'll receive communion because our commitment is first and foremost to Jesus.
Second, we'll do a responsive reading as a way of expressing our commitment together.
And then third, we're gonna pray, because for all this, we are completely dependent on God.
And we're going to receive communion in a different way today.
First, as a sign of our commitment to you as the people of this church, our elders are going to serve you communion today.
So I want to invite our elders to go ahead and get in their places.
I also want to invite the band to come on out and join me on stage.
And in a minute, the elders will pass the plates so that you can get the elements for the Lord's Supper.
Now, if you are a follower of Christ, take the bread and the cup and hold on to them.
If you're not a Christian, we're so glad that you're here, but I would encourage you just to let the plates pass, not because you're unwelcome, but because this meal is a public declaration of faith in Christ.
And then second, in terms of what's going to be different, as a sign of our unity in Christ, we're all going to receive communion together at the same time.
So once you get communion, hold on to it.
And then while we're serving communion, the band will be playing, and we're gonna have some scriptures on the screen that will be the basis for the response of reading that we're gonna do.
We want you to reflect on these verses and consider if you can express your commitment to Christ and the church in those ways.
Amen.
All right, church family, as we transition into the Lord's Supper, I'm going to read a declaration over you all, and there are gonna be words on this screen that you will repeat after me, okay?
So, beloved, the meal that we are about to take together is a celebration of Christ's victory, a reminder of His abundant grace to us, communion with His very self and hope of life everlasting.
We come together.
Amen.
Let's pray.
God, our good, good, good Father, senior Holy Spirit upon us, that the bread which we eat and the cup that we will drink may be to us a communion with the body and the blood of Christ.
Father, grant that being joined together in Him, we may attain the unity of faith and grow up in every way into Christ our Lord.
Amen.
All right, the Lord Jesus,
the same night that he was betrayed, took bread.
And when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them saying, take, eat.
This is my body, which is given for you.
Do this in remembrance of me.
And we all ate.
Amen.
Now in the same way, he also took the cup after supper saying,
This cup is the new covenant in my blood.
Do this as often as you drink it and remembrance of me.
And we all drink together.
Amen.
Now, beloved, as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until He comes.
We will now affirm our mutual commitment to follow Jesus, love one another, and to serve Los Angeles.
I will read the scripture over you, and if you are committed to the mission of the reality LA, we welcome you to read along the response on a screen marked congregation.
And Jesus said to all, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.
By God's grace, we'll follow Jesus together, denying ourselves and trusting in him as Lord and Savior.
The Lord says, just as I have loved you, you also ought to love one another.
By this, all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love one for another.
By God's grace, and as we receive God's love, we will love one another as members of the bodies of Christ.
The Lord says, seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf.
For in its welfare, you will find your welfare.
By God's grace, we will serve Los Angeles and pray on its behalf, knowing that God makes his appeal through us.
These are waiting commitments, and the only way we will be able to keep them is by the grace of God and through the power of the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
Help us, Lord.
Let's pray once more, Church.
God, our Father almighty, we thank you for the abundant mercy that you have shown us in our Lord Jesus Christ.
We've gathered here today to be reminded of that mercy, to be washed new in it, to be filled afresh with it.
And so we ask by the power of your Holy Spirit that you would seal these commands and these commitments up in our hearts and help us to keep them in faithfulness all year long, remembering the glory of the gospel, that the moment we fail, we can turn to you and seek favor and you will give it in abundance.
forgiving us, cleansing us, making us new and guiding us in your ways of righteousness now and forever.
We ask that in this way, through our seeking to love and repent and serve and love again, you would make us more and more into the image of our Lord Jesus Christ for His glory and in His name.
And everybody said, amen.
Thank you for listening.
For more audio and video content, please visit realityla.com.